terraform validate:
    we use this command to check if the syntax is correct or not.

    Validate runs checks that verify whether a configuration is syntactically valid and 

    internally consistent, regardless of any provided variables or existing state.
    
    Usage: terraform validate
terraform fmt:
    The terraform fmt command is used to rewrite Terraform configuration files to a canonical format and style

    Other Terraform commands that generate Terraform configuration will produce configuration files that conform to the style imposed by terraform fmt, 
    
    so using this style in your own files will ensure consistency.
    usage: terraform fmt main.tf

terraform init: 
    The terraform init command initializes a working directory containing Terraform configuration files. 

    This is the first command that should be run after writing a new Terraform configuration or cloning an existing one from version control. 

    shows the version of the plugin being installed, 
    downloaded in .terraform/plugin in the work dir containing config files 

Terraform plan:
    The terraform plan command creates an execution plan, 
    which lets you preview the changes that Terraform plans to make to your infrastructure.

    By default, when Terraform creates a plan it:

    Reads the current state of any already-existing remote objects to make sure that the Terraform state is up-to-date.

    Compares the current configuration to the prior state and noting any differences.

    Proposes a set of change actions that should, if applied, make the remote objects match the configuration.

    The plan command alone does not actually carry out the proposed changes
  
Terraform apply:
   The terraform apply command executes the actions proposed in a Terraform plan.

    When you run terraform apply without passing a saved plan file, Terraform automatically creates a new 

    execution plan as if you had run terraform plan, prompts you to approve that plan, and takes the indicated actions. 

Terraform destroy:
    The terraform destroy command is a convenient way to destroy all remote objects managed by a particular Terraform configuration.

Terraform show: 
    The terraform show command is used to provide human-readable output from a state or plan file.

    to see the configuration details of the resources created by apply comaand.

    It inspects the state file and displays the details.
    usage: terraform show main.tf 

Terraform providers: 
    The terraform providers command shows information about the provider requirements of the configuration in
    
     the current working directory, as an aid to understanding where each requirement was detected from.

     Usage: terraform providers

terraform output:
    The terraform output command is used to extract the value of an output variable from the state file.

    displays the outputs defined in your Terraform configuration.

    Usage: terraform output

terraform refresh:
    The terraform refresh command reads the current settings from all managed remote objects and updates the Terraform state to match.
    Usage: terraform refresh, terraform apply -refresh-only -auto-approve

terraform graph:
    The terraform graph command produces descriptions of the relationships between objects in a Terraform configuration


    Usage: terraform graph
    ex: apt install graphviz -y
        terraform graph -type=plan | dot -Tpng >graph.png
